cv/index.md, before:

---
layout: cv
title: Jonathan P. Chang's CV
---
# Jonathan P. Chang

<div id="webaddress">
<i class="fa fa-envelope"></i> <a href="mailto:jpc362@cornell.edu">jpc362@cornell.edu</a>
| <i class="fa fa-globe"></i> <a href="https://cs.cornell.edu/~jpchang">cs.cornell.edu/~jpchang</a>
| <i class="fa fa-phone"></i> (408) 717-1539
</div>


## Summary

I am passionate about teaching and mentorship at the undergraduate level.
I have taught one undergraduate CS course as co-instructor of record, additionally TA'd six CS courses across nine semesters of my undergraduate and graduate careers, and designed and taught various data science workshops.
I have also been a research mentor for six undergraduate students.

My research involves working with real online communities to design and evaluate computational tools for content moderation and community governance.
It has been published in top venues for both natural language processing (ACL, EMNLP) and computational social science (WWW, CSCW).


## Education

`2017-Present`
__Cornell University__

- *PhD in Computer Science*
- Advisor: Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil
- Expected Graduation: May 2024

`2013-2017`
__Harvey Mudd College__

- *Bachelor of Computer Science*
- Dean's List: All Eligible Semesters
- Graduated With High Distinction




## Teaching Experience

<div class="dummy_space"></div>

### Courses Taught

`Spring 2023`
**CS4300 - Information and Language**
- *Cornell University*
- This was a 200-person course open to both computer science and information science undergraduates, covering selected topics in information retrieval, machine learning, and natural language processing. As co-instructor of record, I updated and taught lectures on the machine learning topics, reorganized some assignments to better spread out the workload, designed exam questions, and oversaw the development of new infrastructure for the course project to make it more approachable for students with less technical background.


### Workshops Taught

`Summer 2022`
**Introduction to Python Bootcamp**
- *Cornell Center for Social Sciences*
- I co-developed and co-instructed this brand-new workshop designed to introduce Python to social science researchers with little to no prior programming experience. It covers the basics of the Python language, explains key debugging skills, and introduces core data science packages.

`Spring 2022`
**Using APIs for Social Science Research**
- *Cornell Center for Social Sciences*
- I co-developed this brand-new workshop that explains what APIs are and demos how to use an API to fetch different kinds of social media data.

`Fall 2021`
**Introduction to Git and GitHub**
- *Cornell Center for Social Sciences*
- This workshop covers the basics of version control and how it can both help researchers keep their code organized and promote reproducibility in research. I updated it with new visual explanations of key Git concepts to make it more approachable for first-time Git users.


### Courses TA'd

`Fall 2017`
**CS4700 - Foundations of Artificial Intelligence**, *Cornell University*

`Spring 2017`
**CS151 - Artifical Intelligence**, *Harvey Mudd College*

`Fall 2017`
**CS140 - Algorithms**, *Harvey Mudd College*

`Spring 2016`
**CS131 - Programming Languages**, *Harvey Mudd College*

`Fall 2014-16`
**CS70 - Data Structures and Program Development**, *Harvey Mudd College*
- Head TA during the Fall 2015 semester

`Spring 2014`
**CS60 - Principles of Computer Science**, *Harvey Mudd College*


## Publications


`2022`
**Jonathan P. Chang**, Charlotte Schluger and Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
"Thread With Caution: Proactively Helping Users Assess and Deescalate Tension in Their Online Discussions".
Proceedings of CSCW.

`2022`
Charlotte Schluger, **Jonathan P. Chang**, Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil and Karen Levy.
"Proactive Moderation of Online Discussions: Existing Practices and the Potential for Algorithmic Support".
Proceedings of CSCW.

`2020`
**Jonathan P. Chang**, Caleb Chiam, Liye Fu, Andrew Wang, Justine Zhang and Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
"ConvoKit: A Toolkit for the Analysis of Conversations".
Proceedings of SIGDIAL (System Demos).

`2020`
**Jonathan P. Chang**, Justin Cheng, and Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
"Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood: Comparing Intentions and Perceptions in Online Discussions".
Proceedings of The Web Conference (WWW).

`2019`
**Jonathan P. Chang** and Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
"Trouble on the Horizon: Forecasting the Derailment of Online Conversations as they Develop".
Proceedings of EMNLP.

`2019`
**Jonathan P. Chang** and Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
"Trajectories of Blocked Community Members: Redemption, Recidivism and Departure".
Proceedings of The Web Conference (WWW).

`2019`
Liye Fu, **Jonathan P. Chang** and Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
"Inferring Advice-Seeking Intentions From Personal Narratives: A Cloze Test Formulation".
Proceedings of NAACL.

`2018`
Justine Zhang, **Jonathan P. Chang**, Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, Lucas Dixon, Yiqing Hua, Nithum Thain, Dario Taraborelli.
"Conversations Gone Awry: Detecting Early Signs of Conversational Failure".
Proceedings of ACL.

`2017`
**Jonathan P. Chang** and Stefan Scherer. "Learning Representations of Emotional Speech with Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial
Networks". Proceedings of IEEE ICASSP.

## Honors and Awards

`2017`
__"Class of '94" Computer Science Department Award__
- *Harvey Mudd College*
- Awarded to top 3 graduating computer science undergraduates on the basis of coursework, research, and service.

`2017`
__Clinic Award__
- *Harvey Mudd College*
- Awarded for outstanding senior capstone project.

`2017`
__Departmental Honors in Humanities, Social Sciences, and the Arts__
- *Harvey Mudd College*
- Awarded for academic performance in courses in humanities, social sciences, and the arts.


## Leadership

<div class="dummy_space"></div>

### Mentorship Programs

`2021-2023`
__Data Science Fellow__
- *Cornell Center for Social Sciences*
- In addition to designing and teaching workshops (listed above), I also provided one-on-one consultations to researchers to help them with data science related tasks.

<div class="manualpagebreak"></div>

`2015-2017`
__Peer Academic Liaison__
- *Harvey Mudd College*
- Connected Harvey Mudd students to academic resources and provided support, especially for first-year students.

### Departmental Service

`2019-2023`
__CS Department "Czar Czar"__
- *Cornell University*
- The "czars" system is the CS department's informal program for student volunteer ("czar") positions to organize events such as lunch seminars and social outings. As "czar czar", I was in charge of recruiting and managing the "czars".


## Talks and Events

<div class="dummy_space"></div>

### Invited Talks

`June 2019`
__Trajectories of Blocked Community Members: Redemption, Recidivism & Departure__
- *Wikimedia Research Showcase*

`June 2018`
__Conversations Gone Awry: Detecting Early Signs of Conversational Failure__
- *Wikimedia Research Showcase*

### Invited Events

`Fall 2019`
__Breakthroughs in AI Workshop__
- *Microsoft Research*


## Media Coverage

`2023`
__How AI Tools Could Help Make Online Discussions Healthier__
- *The Academic Minute / Inside Higher Ed*

`2023`
__Regret being hostile online? AI tool guides users away from vitriol__
- *Cornell Chronicle*

`2018`
__Machine learning could stop an online war of words before it starts__
- *MIT Technology Review*

`2018`
__Machine learning is helping computers spot arguments online before they happen__
- *The Verge*

`2018`
__Scientists are building a detector for conversations likely to go bad__
- *Fast Company*

`2018`
__Predicting when online conversations turn toxic__
- *Cornell Chronicle*


## Industry Experience

`Summer 2019`
__Core Data Science Intern__
- *Facebook*
- Worked with CDS researcher Justin Cheng on understanding the role of intentions and perceived intentions in public
conversations.

`Summer 2017`
__Software Engineering Intern__
- *Proofpoint Inc.*
- Developed a machine learning pipeline for quick filtering of suspicious URLs in emails.

`Summer 2015`
__Intern Software Analyst and Developer__
- *Intentional Software Corporation*
- Leveraged Intentional’s application platform to create a unique color editor tool allowing users to manipulate 3d
representations of color space.

<div class="manualpagebreak"></div>

`Summer 2014`
__Software Engineering Intern__
- *Smith Micro Software*
- Implemented a content browser for Poser Pro (Smith Micro’s 3d animation tool) using JavaScript.
Added texture processing and multi-animation support to Poser Pro’s FBX file format exporter using C++. Created a demo
game using the Unity engine to demonstrate Poser Pro’s Unity support.


## Software and Datasets

__ConvoKit__
- An open-source Python NLP package implementing multiple conversational analysis tools. I led a redesign effort in 2020 to improve
user friendliness and flexibility for the 2.0 release, and again in 2021-22 to add support for a new optional database storage backend.
In addition to leading these efforts, I also continue to be an active contributor of code, documentation, and ideas.
- <i class="fa fa-globe"></i> <a href="https://convokit.cornell.edu">https://convokit.cornell.edu</a>
- <i class="fa fa-github"></i> <a href="https://github.com/CornellNLP/ConvoKit">https://github.com/CornellNLP/ConvoKit</a>

__CRAFT__
- A beginner-friendly reimplementation of the CRAFT language model from my EMNLP 2019 paper "Trouble on the Horizon", written in and compatible with the popular PyTorch neural network framework.
- <i class="fa fa-github"></i> <a href="https://github.com/jpwchang/CRAFT">https://github.com/jpwchang/CRAFT</a>

__Conversations Gone Awry Datasets__
- Datasets of conversations from Wikipedia Talk Pages and Reddit's "ChangeMyView" debate forum, annotated for the presence of personal attacks and hostility. Over 10,000 annotated conversations in total, distributed as part of ConvoKit.
- <i class="fa fa-globe"></i> <a href="https://convokit.cornell.edu/documentation/awry.html">https://convokit.cornell.edu/documentation/awry.html</a>
- <i class="fa fa-globe"></i> <a href="https://convokit.cornell.edu/documentation/awry_cmv.html">https://convokit.cornell.edu/documentation/awry_cmv.html</a>


## Skills

1. Python
2. PyTorch
3. SpaCy
4. NLTK
5. scikit-learn
6. Numpy / Scipy
7. Pandas
8. C/C++
9. C#
10. Java
11. JavaScript
12. PHP
13. Haskell
14. HTML / CSS
15. OCaml
16. Perl
17. Prolog
18. Racket
19. Ruby
20. SQL


## Relevant Coursework

1. Artificial Intelligence
2. NLP
3. Neural Networks
4. Computer Vision
5. Algorithms
6. Computability and Logic
7. Probability and Statistics
8. Image Processing
9. Autonomous Vehicles
10. NLP & Social Interaction
11. Information Networks


<!-- ### Footer

Last updated: May 2013 -->

Commit message:

various adjustments from the big Oct 13 submission round

cv/index.md, after:

---
layout: cv
title: Jonathan P. Chang's CV
---
# Jonathan P. Chang

<div id="webaddress">
<i class="fa fa-envelope"></i> <a href="mailto:jpc362@cornell.edu">jpc362@cornell.edu</a>
| <i class="fa fa-globe"></i> <a href="https://cs.cornell.edu/~jpchang">cs.cornell.edu/~jpchang</a>
| <i class="fa fa-phone"></i> (408) 717-1539
</div>


## Summary

I am passionate about teaching and mentorship at the undergraduate level.
I have taught one undergraduate CS course as co-instructor of record, additionally TA'd six CS courses across nine semesters of my undergraduate and graduate careers, and designed and taught various data science workshops.
I have also been a research mentor for six undergraduate and three masters students.

My research involves working with real online communities to design and evaluate computational tools for supporting healthier, less toxic online interactions.
It has been published in top venues for both natural language processing (ACL, EMNLP) and computational social science (WWW, CSCW).


## Education

`2017-Present`
__Cornell University__

- *PhD in Computer Science*
- Advisor: Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil
- Expected Graduation: May 2024

`2013-2017`
__Harvey Mudd College__

- *Bachelor of Computer Science*
- Dean's List: All Eligible Semesters
- Graduated With High Distinction




## Teaching Experience

<div class="dummy_space"></div>

### Courses Taught

`Spring 2023`
**CS4300 - Information and Language**
- *Cornell University*
- I was co-instructor of record for this 200-person course open to both computer science and information science undergraduates, which covers selected topics in information retrieval (IR), machine learning (ML), and natural language processing (NLP). I updated and taught lectures on the ML and NLP topics, developed new interactive in-class activities, designed exam questions, and oversaw the development of new infrastructure for the course project to make it more approachable for students with less technical background.


### Workshops Taught

`Fall 2023`
**Machine Learning Workshop Series**
- *Cornell Center for Social Sciences*
- This 4-part workshop series introduces social science researchers to the fundamentals of ML, and shows them how to use popular Python ML toolkts. I updated it with new examples drawn from social science papers and improved the documentation of the coding demos.

`Summer 2022`
**Introduction to Python Bootcamp**
- *Cornell Center for Social Sciences*
- I co-developed and co-instructed this brand-new workshop designed to introduce Python to social science researchers with little to no prior programming experience. It covers the basics of the Python language, explains key debugging skills, and introduces core data science packages.

`Spring 2022`
**Using APIs for Social Science Research**
- *Cornell Center for Social Sciences*
- I co-developed this brand-new workshop that explains what APIs are and demos how to use an API to fetch different kinds of social media data.

<div class="manualpagebreak"></div>

`Fall 2021`
**Introduction to Git and GitHub**
- *Cornell Center for Social Sciences*
- This workshop covers the basics of version control and how it can both help researchers keep their code organized and promote reproducibility in research. I updated it with new visual explanations of key Git concepts to make it more approachable for first-time Git users.


### Courses TA'd

`Fall 2017`
**CS4700 - Foundations of Artificial Intelligence**, *Cornell University*

`Spring 2017`
**CS151 - Artifical Intelligence**, *Harvey Mudd College*

`Fall 2017`
**CS140 - Algorithms**, *Harvey Mudd College*

`Spring 2016`
**CS131 - Programming Languages**, *Harvey Mudd College*

`Fall 2014-16`
**CS70 - Data Structures and Program Development**, *Harvey Mudd College*
- Head TA during the Fall 2015 semester

`Spring 2014`
**CS60 - Principles of Computer Science**, *Harvey Mudd College*


## Publications


`2022`
**Jonathan P. Chang**, Charlotte Schluger and Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
"Thread With Caution: Proactively Helping Users Assess and Deescalate Tension in Their Online Discussions".
Proceedings of CSCW.

`2022`
Charlotte Schluger, **Jonathan P. Chang**, Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil and Karen Levy.
"Proactive Moderation of Online Discussions: Existing Practices and the Potential for Algorithmic Support".
Proceedings of CSCW.

`2020`
**Jonathan P. Chang**, Caleb Chiam, Liye Fu, Andrew Wang, Justine Zhang and Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
"ConvoKit: A Toolkit for the Analysis of Conversations".
Proceedings of SIGDIAL (System Demos).

`2020`
**Jonathan P. Chang**, Justin Cheng, and Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
"Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood: Comparing Intentions and Perceptions in Online Discussions".
Proceedings of The Web Conference (WWW).

`2019`
**Jonathan P. Chang** and Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
"Trouble on the Horizon: Forecasting the Derailment of Online Conversations as they Develop".
Proceedings of EMNLP.

`2019`
**Jonathan P. Chang** and Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
"Trajectories of Blocked Community Members: Redemption, Recidivism and Departure".
Proceedings of The Web Conference (WWW).

`2019`
Liye Fu, **Jonathan P. Chang** and Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil.
"Inferring Advice-Seeking Intentions From Personal Narratives: A Cloze Test Formulation".
Proceedings of NAACL.

`2018`
Justine Zhang, **Jonathan P. Chang**, Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, Lucas Dixon, Yiqing Hua, Nithum Thain, Dario Taraborelli.
"Conversations Gone Awry: Detecting Early Signs of Conversational Failure".
Proceedings of ACL.

`2017`
**Jonathan P. Chang** and Stefan Scherer. "Learning Representations of Emotional Speech with Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial
Networks". Proceedings of IEEE ICASSP.

## Honors and Awards

`2017`
__"Class of '94" Computer Science Department Award__
- *Harvey Mudd College*
- Awarded to top 3 graduating computer science undergraduates on the basis of coursework, research, and service.

<div class="manualpagebreak"></div>

`2017`
__Clinic Award__
- *Harvey Mudd College*
- Awarded for outstanding senior capstone project.

`2017`
__Departmental Honors in Humanities, Social Sciences, and the Arts__
- *Harvey Mudd College*
- Awarded for outstanding academic performance in courses in humanities, social sciences, and the arts.


## Leadership

<div class="dummy_space"></div>

### Mentorship Programs

`2021-2023`
__Data Science Fellow__
- *Cornell Center for Social Sciences*
- In addition to designing and teaching workshops (listed above), I also provided one-on-one consultations to researchers to help them with data science related tasks.


`2015-2017`
__Peer Academic Liaison__
- *Harvey Mudd College*
- Connected Harvey Mudd students to academic resources and provided support, especially for first-year students.

### Departmental Service

`2019-2023`
__CS Department "Czar Czar"__
- *Cornell University*
- The "czars" system is the CS department's informal program for student volunteer ("czar") positions to organize events such as lunch seminars and social outings. As "czar czar", I was in charge of recruiting and managing the "czars".


## Talks and Events

<div class="dummy_space"></div>

### Invited Talks

`June 2019`
__Trajectories of Blocked Community Members: Redemption, Recidivism & Departure__
- *Wikimedia Research Showcase*

`June 2018`
__Conversations Gone Awry: Detecting Early Signs of Conversational Failure__
- *Wikimedia Research Showcase*

### Invited Events

`Fall 2019`
__Breakthroughs in AI Workshop__
- *Microsoft Research*


## Media Coverage

`2023`
__How AI Tools Could Help Make Online Discussions Healthier__
- *The Academic Minute / Inside Higher Ed*

`2023`
__Regret being hostile online? AI tool guides users away from vitriol__
- *Cornell Chronicle*

`2018`
__Machine learning could stop an online war of words before it starts__
- *MIT Technology Review*

`2018`
__Machine learning is helping computers spot arguments online before they happen__
- *The Verge*

`2018`
__Scientists are building a detector for conversations likely to go bad__
- *Fast Company*

`2018`
__Predicting when online conversations turn toxic__
- *Cornell Chronicle*


## Industry Experience

`Summer 2019`
__Core Data Science Intern__
- *Facebook*
- Worked with CDS researcher Justin Cheng on understanding the role of intentions and perceived intentions in public
conversations.

`Summer 2017`
__Software Engineering Intern__
- *Proofpoint Inc.*
- Developed a machine learning pipeline for quick filtering of suspicious URLs in emails.

`Summer 2015`
__Intern Software Analyst and Developer__
- *Intentional Software Corporation*
- Leveraged Intentional’s application platform to create a unique color editor tool allowing users to manipulate 3d
representations of color space.


`Summer 2014`
__Software Engineering Intern__
- *Smith Micro Software*
- Implemented a content browser for Poser Pro (Smith Micro’s 3d animation tool) using JavaScript.
Added texture processing and multi-animation support to Poser Pro’s FBX file format exporter using C++. Created a demo
game using the Unity engine to demonstrate Poser Pro’s Unity support.


## Software and Datasets

__ConvoKit__
- An open-source Python NLP package implementing multiple conversational analysis tools. I led a redesign effort in 2020 to improve
user friendliness and flexibility for the 2.0 release, and again in 2021-22 to add support for a new optional database storage backend.
In addition to leading these efforts, I also continue to be an active contributor of code, documentation, and ideas.
- <i class="fa fa-globe"></i> <a href="https://convokit.cornell.edu">https://convokit.cornell.edu</a>
- <i class="fa fa-github"></i> <a href="https://github.com/CornellNLP/ConvoKit">https://github.com/CornellNLP/ConvoKit</a>

__CRAFT__
- A beginner-friendly reimplementation of the CRAFT language model from my EMNLP 2019 paper "Trouble on the Horizon", written in and compatible with the popular PyTorch neural network framework.
- <i class="fa fa-github"></i> <a href="https://github.com/jpwchang/CRAFT">https://github.com/jpwchang/CRAFT</a>

__Conversations Gone Awry Datasets__
- Datasets of conversations from Wikipedia Talk Pages and Reddit's "ChangeMyView" debate forum, annotated for the presence of personal attacks and hostility. Over 10,000 annotated conversations in total, distributed as part of ConvoKit.
- <i class="fa fa-globe"></i> <a href="https://convokit.cornell.edu/documentation/awry.html">https://convokit.cornell.edu/documentation/awry.html</a>
- <i class="fa fa-globe"></i> <a href="https://convokit.cornell.edu/documentation/awry_cmv.html">https://convokit.cornell.edu/documentation/awry_cmv.html</a>


## Skills

1. Python
2. PyTorch
3. SpaCy
4. NLTK
5. scikit-learn
6. Numpy / Scipy
7. Pandas
8. C/C++
9. C#
10. Java
11. JavaScript
12. PHP
13. Haskell
14. HTML / CSS
15. OCaml
16. Perl
17. Prolog
18. Racket
19. Ruby
20. SQL


## Relevant Coursework

1. Artificial Intelligence
2. NLP
3. Neural Networks
4. Computer Vision
5. Algorithms
6. Computability and Logic
7. Probability and Statistics
8. Image Processing
9. Autonomous Vehicles
10. NLP & Social Interaction
11. Information Networks


<!-- ### Footer

Last updated: May 2013 -->
